<img width="857" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/67842939/190537013-b30595b5-fb57-4246-adf1-c96ec88a805c.png">


**Abstract.** Phishing emails are a primary mode of entry for attackers
into an organization. A successful phishing attempt leads to
unauthorized access to sensitive information and systems. However,
automatically identifying phishing emails is often difficult since many
phishing emails have composite features such as body text and metadata
that are nearly indistinguishable from valid emails. This paper presents
a novel machine learning-based framework, the DARTH framework, that
characterizes and combines multiple models, with one model for each
individual composite feature, that enables the accurate identification
of phishing emails. The framework analyses each composite feature
independently utilizing a multi-faceted approach using Natural Language
Processing (NLP) and neural network-based techniques and combines the
results of these analysis to classify the emails as malicious or
legitimate. Utilizing the framework on more than 150,000 emails and
training data from multiple sources including the authors' personal
emails and phishtank.com resulted in the precision (correct
identification of malicious observations to the total prediction of
malicious observations) of 99.97% with an f-score of 99.98% and
accurately identifying phishing emails 99.98% of the time. Utilizing
multiple machine learning techniques combined in an ensemble approach
across a range of composite features yields highly accurate
identification of phishing emails.

Download the full [paper](https://github.com/ravisiv/PhishingEmailDetection/raw/main/Phishing%20Detection%20using%20ML%20and%20NLP.docx).



